The code we have thus far is not bad and it does its job
and if our application were as simple as it is here, it would be perfectly fine
but in bigger applications and maybe even in this one, we already have a quite big component with a lot
of code that is only indirectly related to the user interface.
Of course, we want to send a request when a button is clicked then we want to display that response
data
but for example, transforming the result, transforming the data, we can do it here,
it's not inherently bad but it is a nice practice to outsource that into services, so that services are
the parts in your Angular application that do the heavy lifting, the dirty work and your components are
relatively lean, as lean as they can be and are mostly concerned with template related work,
so with things like the is fetching property and so on and therefore, let's create a new service now, the
post service here and I'll create it by exporting a class, post service. Now we need to provide that and
for that, we can use two approaches, we can use @injectable which you need to import from
@angular/core and there we can pass an object and set provided in to root which is the more modern and recommended
approach
but you could also provide it here in the providers array of the app module and this also wouldn't
be bad or a problem. Here
however, I will use this approach. Now what's my idea behind that service? In this service, I want to have
my HTTP request methods, so the methods that do the HTTP requests and I only want to get the responses
or the message whether we're done with the request in my front-end.
So therefore in this service, I will add a new method, create and store post, you can of course name this
however you want it and there,
I expect to get a title which is a string and the content which is a string as an argument let's say
and here I want to send my HTTP request.
Now of course, I also want to be able to fetch my post, so I'll add fetch posts here and there,
I also want to send a request.
Now of course, I only want to move my code over, that's in the end what I want to do here.
So let's grab that HTTP request here from onCreatePost and let's move it into the post service here.
Now we're sending the HTTP request here,
however for this to work, we need to inject the HTTP service into this post service.
So let's add a constructor and with the help of that constructor, we inject the HttpClient and we
store it in a property named HTTP and the HttpClient is imported from
@angular/common/http.
Now of course here, we have no post data property anymore,
I can create it here though and this will in the end be of type post and therefore, it will have a
title and so on
but we first of all need to import our own post model.
So let's import post from ./post.model
and now to be a real post, we need to set a title property here which is equal to our title we're getting
as an argument and we need to set a content property which is equal to the content we're getting his
argument,
so the right side of the colon refers to these arguments here.
Now that's the post data we're sending and now we can call create and store post to send that request.
So back in the app component, I now need to inject my own post service, private post service, like this
and make sure to add that import path here at the top,
you need to import post service from there
and now in onCreatePost, I simply call this post service
create and store post. I get an error here because I need to pass some data to that method,
I need to pass the title and the content.
Now I get my post data here, so I access postData.title and my second argument I send is
postData.content
and with that, we should be able to create new posts.
Let's add a new post here,
the best Angular course, which this one hopefully is,
I'm of course interested in your feedback, so I hope so.
Send that post,
now we have no logic to automatically update our list of posts down there but that's fine,
we can click fetch posts again and now we see our post here. So that now still works
but now the logic was outsourced into the post service.
Let's do the same for fetching posts,
let's grab this logic here and we'll have a problem with is fetching but I'll come back to this.
Let's grab this logic here and move it into fetch posts in the posts
service like that.
Now let's remove is fetching and let's remove this loaded posts because we don't have these
properties here and we don't really need them here in the post service, is fetching and the loaded
posts clearly belong into our app component and not into the service
because the component is where we use them, where we want to display them or where we need them to change
what we display in the template.
Let's focus on the rest of this code for now. We're missing the map operator,
so let's make sure we import that here,
let's import map from rxjs/operators
and with that, we have a request that should work but will still need to fine tune this later.
At the moment, we can't get rid of that private method here of course
and instead where we previously called this fetch posts, we can now use the post service and call fetch
posts there.
So we do that here in onFetchPosts and in ngOnInit.
However what you will see of course is that now we have no posts available because whilst we're running
that code in the service and indeed, you can see that if I click fetch posts, an HTTP request
is sent and we are fetching the posts, whilst all of that is happening,
we're not seeing the posts here because we lost the connection between the data we fetched in the service
and our template.
Let's fix that.